## hw09-intro-to-rails

#URLs: summary information
1. /
  -   displays the root (or default page) for the site
  -   the controller#action for the root may be something like 'welcome#index'
  -   the template would be index.html.erb (for the welcome controller class - path = view/welcome/index.html.erb)
2. /gifs
  -   this url requests information from a different controller (i.e. the gifs controller) 
  -   the controller#action for this url may be somethinge like 'gifs#index' or 'gifs#list'
  -   the template would be index.html.erb or list.html.erb (for the gif controller class -  path =                 view/gifs/index.html.erb) depending on how the action was defined
3. /gifs/23463-cats-jumping
  -   this url uses the gif controller and typically displays an individual gif
  -   the controller#action for this url would typically be 'gifs#view'
  -   the generic path for this url would be "/photos/:id", where the :id is a param (e.g. params = gif.id)
  -   the template would be view.html.erb (for the gif controller class - path = view/gifs/view.html.erb)

Three controllers exist for the application (others may also exist, but they are not required for the three identified urls)
-   1. application_controller.rb
-   2. welcome_controller.rb
-   3. gifs_controller.rb

# How do the router, controllers, actions, params, and templates work together to render content dynamically?
When a url is entered into the browser, Rails initially looks to the routes.rb file for a 'match' starting from the top of the file down. If the 'root' for the site is defined, the '/' url will follow the controller#action prompt that is specified for the root. Continuing with the example above, the root may be defined in the routes.rb file as 'root "welcome#index"', where 'welcome' is the controller (i.e. welcome_controller.rb) and 'index' is the action. The controller#action gets data and sets instance variables that may be used by the templates (which in this case would be index.html.erb under the 'view/welcome' directory). The template file is then 'wrapped' by the layout (layouts/application.html.erb, which is a generic layout for the application) then combined with any styles sheets (i.e. application.scss and welcome.scss). The html, css, and JS that are generated by this process are then returned and displayed by the browser. 

The process for the other two urls is similar. The primary differences are that the 'match' within the router would not be the root for the application - rather, the matches would be similar to 'get "gifs" => "gifs#index"' and 'get "gifs/:id" => "gifs#view"' - and the controller would be the gifs_controller.rb file. 

# Layout vs. Template
A layout is like a default template for the application, whereas a template is a more specific erb file used for rendering page-specific content. For example, the '/gifs/23463-cats-jumping' url will use the application's layout (application.html.erb) to render items such as a generic navigation bar,  but it will also use a specific template file (view/gifs/view.html.erb) to render the remainder of the page's content.

